I

Aryans, Betty Crocker, Bettye Lavette,
Blowfish, briar bushes, Bubbas, Buckras,
Archie Bunkers, bullhorns, bullwhips, bullets,
All cancers kill me, car crashes, cavemen, chakras,
Crackers, discord, dissonance, doves, Elvis,
Ghosts, the grim reaper herself, a heart attack
While making love, hangmen, Hillbillies exist,
Lillies, Martha Stewarts, Mayflower maniacs,
Money grubbers, Gwen Brooks’ “The Mother,”
(My mother’s bipolar as bacon), pancakes kill me,
Phonies, dead roaches, big roaches & smaller
Roaches, the sheepish, snakes, all seven seas,
Snow avalanches, swansongs, sciatica, Killer
Wasps, yee-haws, you, now & then, disease.

II

Probably, ghosts are allergic to us. Our uproarious
Breathing & ruckus. Our eruptions, our disregard
For dust. Small worlds unwhirl in the corners of our homes
After death. Our warriors, weirdos, antiheros, our sirs,
Sires, our sighers, sidewinders & whiners, winos,
And wonders become dust. I know a few of the dead.
I remember my sister’s last hoorah.  I remember
The horror of her head on a pillow. For a long time
The numbers were balanced. The number alive equal
To the number in graves. After a very long time
The bones become dust again & the dust
After a long time becomes dirt & the dirt becomes soil
And the soil becomes grain again. This bitter earth is a song
Clogging the mouth before it is swallowed or spat out.

III

I pour a pinch of serious poison for you James
Earl Ray Dylann Roof I pour a punch of piss for you
George Zimmerman John Wilkes Booth Robert
Chambliss Thomas Edwin Blanton Jr Bobby Frank
Cherry Herman Frank Cash Jim Crow your name
Is a gate opening upon another gate I pour a punch
Of perils I pour a bunch of punches all over you
I pour unmerciful panic into your river I damn you
With the opposite of prayer Byron De La Beckwith
Roy Bryant  J.W. Milan Edgar Ray Killen Assassins
Love trumps power or blood to trump power
Beauty trumps power or blood to trump power
Justice trumps power or blood to trump power
The names alive are like the names in the graves

IV

The earth of my nigga eyes are assassinated.
The deep well of my nigga throat is assassinated.
The tender bells of my nigga testicles are gone.
You assassinate the sound of our bullshit & blissfulness.
The bones managing the body’s business are cloaked
Until you assassinate my nigga flesh. The skin is replaced
By a cloak of fire. Sometimes it is river or rainwater
That cloaks the bones. Sometimes we lie on the roadside
In bushels of knotted roots, flowers & thorns until our body
Is found. You assassinate the smell of my breath, which is like
Smoke, milk, twilight, itself. You assassinate my tongue
Which is like the head of a turtle wearing my skull for a shell.
You assassinate my lovely legs & the muscular hook of my cock.
Still, I speak for the dead. You cannot assassinate my ghosts.

V

America, you just wanted change is all, a return
To the kind of awe experienced after beholding a reign
Of gold. A leader whose metallic narcissism is a reflection
Of your own. You share a fantasy with Trinidad
James, who said “Gold all in my chain, gold all in my ring,
Gold all in my watch” & if you know what I’m talking
About, your gold is the yellow of “Lemonade” by Gucci
Mane: “Yellow rims, yellow big booty, yellow bones,
Yellow Lambs, yellow MP's, yellow watch.” Like no
Culture before us, we relate the way the descendants
Of the raped relate to the descendants of their rapists.
May your restlessness come at last to rest, constituents
Of Midas, I wish you the opposite of what Neruda said
Of lemons, may all the gold you touch burn, rot & rust.

VI

I remember my sister’s last hoorah. She joined the black
People I've grown tired of losing. They were going upstairs
Together, all the dead from parts Of Florida, Ferguson,
Brooklyn, Charleston, Cleveland, Chicago, Baltimore,
Everywhere. Someone is prey in all of our encounters.
I am someone with a good memory & better imagination.
I know the names alive are like the names in graves.
Probably all of our encounters are existential Jambalaya.
Probably blindness has a chewed heart in its belly.
Probably, ghosts are allergic to the blindness you’ve hitched
Your wagon to. Because we are made of earth, don’t you
And I share a loss, sweet Assassin, aren’t you & I haunted,
Sweetness, Sweetness, Sweetness? Poor, tattered Heart,
Old, poisoned Heart, I’ve almost grown tired of talking to you.

VII

Rilke ends his sonnet, “Archaic Torso Of Apollo” saying
“You must change your life.” James Wright ends “Lying
In A Hammock At William Duffy's Farm In Pine Island,
Minnesota” saying “I have wasted my life.” Ruth Stone ends
“A Moment” Saying “You do not want to repeat my life.”
A minute seed with a giant soul kicking inside it at the end
And beginning of life. After the opening scene where
A car bomb destroys the black detective’s family, there are
Several scenes of our hero at the edge of life. A shootout
In an African American Folk Museum, a shootout
In the middle of an interstate rest stop parking lot, a shootout
In a barn endangering the farm life. The life
That burns a hole through life, that leaves a scar for life,
That makes you weep for another life. Define life.

VIII

Goddamn, so this is what it means to have a leader
You despise, the racists said when the president
Was black and I’ll be damned if I ain’t saying it too.
Is this a mandate for whiteness, virility, sovereignty,
Stupidity, an idiot’s threats & gangsta narcissisms threading
Every shabby sentence his trumpet constructs? You
Are not allowed to say shit about Mexicans when you
Ain't actually got any Mexican friends— I bet you’ve never
Been invited to a family dinner. You ain’t allowed to deride
Women when you’ve never wept in front of a woman
That wasn't your mother. America’s struggle with itself
Has always had black people at the heart of it. You can’t
Grasp your own hustle, your blackness, you can’t grasp
Your own pussy, your black pussy dies for touch.

IX

When I am nowhere near a ledge or knife covered
In a corridor of fever colored carpet or catching rain
Bead upon the morning headlights hungering some crash
To crack & blacken me before a train full of women
With nose rings & thigh boots, the curved ass of a mother
With her toddler & the rain still following the hills
And shoulders of parts of Maryland & New Jersey,
And the oncoming trains passing inches from head-on
Headlong into Newark where I almost escaped this path,
Before remembering the thrill coloring even today’s
Melancholy delay asleep, awake, the wild haired woman
Smiling on the stairs before fading, a song in the ear
Like the broken phone booth I passed in the Village
Beside a puddle of what could have been crushed tomatoes

X

On some level, I'm always full of Girl Scout cookies
In the Land of a failed landlord with a people of color
Complex. On some level every action is an affirmation
Of personality. In the near empty subway car
I watched a brother dance on the ceiling, spin
On the subway pole like a stripper, twirl like an inverted
Ballarina on the parallel bars. I had no money
To give him. I was going to the party as Will Smith
In the first half of the Hancock movie: aloof, gifted,
Fucked up. I saw the shadows of planes gallop
Over buildings. I saw five white girls side by side
On a park bench, almost synchronized taking selfies
Of themselves taking selfies together in the land
Of a failed landlord with a people of color complex.

XI

The difference between stay woke & don’t sleep
Was lost. The difference between knowing & thinking.
You can teach the heart to love its sadness. Yes, you can.
In the land of a failed landlord with a people of color
Complex. The difference between cursive, tantrum,
Trauma. Assault & pepper spray. When it was learned
The first man was actually born a woman with a clit
So swollen with longing it hung from her like an udder
Waiting to be drained, no one mentioned what was at
The beginning of longing. Which is loneliness.
Which will not be snuffed by power, which will not be
Quenched by sex. No one mentioned the implications:
To be a man is to possess a woman’s consciousness,
To be a woman is to possess a woman’s consciousness.

XII

It was discovered the best way to combat
Sadness was to make your sadness a door.
Or make it an envelope of wireless chatter
Or wires pulled from the radio tape recorder
Your mother bought you for Christmas in 1984.
If you think a hammer is the only way to hammer
A nail, you ain’t thought of the nail correctly.
My problem was I’d decided to make myself
A poem.  It made me sweat in private selfishly.
It made me bleed, bleep & weep for health.
As a poem I could show my children the man
I dreamed I was, my mother & fathers, my half
Brothers, the lovers I lost. Just morning, as a poem,
I asked myself if I was going to weep today.